# Liana daemon and GUI release notes

## 11.0

This release adds some important new features:
- multi-wallet support
- coin control for recovery transactions
- a new RPC command to list addresses that have been revealed to the user, whether used or not
- the ability in the GUI to view unused addresses that were previously generated by the user
- support airgap flow (SD card) for Coldcard & Krux signing devices

It also includes various other improvements and fixes as outlined below.

Note that the internal structure of Liana's data directory has been updated in this release in such a way that previous versions of
Liana will no longer work on a wallet that has been opened using v11.

### Features

#### Liana GUI

- A user may now install more than one wallet:
    - Each wallet is able to set its own local node or Liana Connect configuration.
    - A Liana-managed Bitcoin Core node will be shared among those wallets selecting this option. Related to this, new wallets using a managed node will use cookie file RPC authentication rather than username and password.
    - To avoid xpub reuse between wallets when using the same signing device, the user can now select the "account" to use with each signing device when setting up the wallet.
    - The user can give each wallet an alias.
- New feature and improvements to the Recovery panel:
    - Coin control can now be used for recovery transactions to enable the user to manage recipients and consolidation of UTXOs as desired. The recovery transaction flow thus resembles more closely that of a regular spend.
    - The Recovery panel menu option has been moved to the main GUI sidebar above Settings for better visibility.
- The Receive panel now includes a list of unused addresses that were previously generated by the user, if any.
    - Whether an address has been used is based on the current set of coins in the wallet.
    - These unused addresses can be managed in the same way as those that have been newly generated, e.g. adding/editing labels.
- Xpubs and PSBTs can now be exported to and imported from a file, which means the user can now interact with Coldcard & Krux signing devices entirely via SD card:
    - import xpub from file
    - export descriptor to file
    - import & export PSBT from/to file
- When creating a new wallet, a "Clear All" button has been added on the step where the user defines the descriptor (keys, recovery paths, etc) to quickly restart this step in case any mistakes are made.
- Bitcoin Core v29.0 will be used for new Liana-managed installations.
- When selecting signing devices for signing transactions or otherwise, those devices that are not relevant to the wallet or to the particular spending path being used for a transaction will be greyed out with a corresponding message.
- When drafting a transaction, the fee will be shown alongside the feerate.
- When exporting items from Liana, the pop-up modal includes a cross-icon to close it.
- Some buttons have been changed to primary buttons.

#### Lianad
- The `createrecovery` RPC command now includes an optional parameter for specifying which coins to include.
- A new `listrevealedaddresses` RPC command has been added to list revealed addresses, optionally filtered to exclude those that have been used.


### Fixes

#### Lianad

- When merging PSBT signatures, the `updatespend` RPC command will treat the PSBT currently saved in the database as the base PSBT onto which signatures will be added from the other PSBT.

#### Liana GUI

- The GUI will better keep track of its managed bitcoind processes to ensure they are stopped/started as required.
- When checking for available recovery paths, the GUI will now ignore unconfirmed coins as a recovery transaction can only include confirmed coins.
- When using Liana Connect as the backend, coins will be cached upon starting Liana, as they already are when using a local node, which will ensure coins shown on different panels are consistent in the initial moments after starting Liana.
- The Send and Recovery panels will use the latest fingerprint aliases in case a user updates them while drafting the transaction.
- Wording on the Recovery panel has been fixed and clarified.
- The background colour used for sliders, such as the one used in the installer to set recovery path timelocks, has been fixed to show the full bar width.

### Contributors

A big thank you to @thomask7b, who made several contributions to this release (following his first contribution in v9.0).


## 10.0

This version does not introduce any breaking changes in the database schema.
Two new features are implemented: Backup and Third party keys fetching during the install.

### Dependencies upgrade

Two big upgrades were done that affect most of the code of the project:

- We upgraded our `rust-bitcoin` dependency to 0.32 for both `lianad` and `liana-gui`.
- We upgraded our `iced` dependency to 13.1 for `liana-gui`.

### Features

#### Liana GUI

During the install process, the xpub of a key provider can be fetch from a Wizardsardine service by entering a token.
This Xpub can be used as a "Safety Net", a paid product where a third party keeps a recovery key for you
in case you lose your access to your funds.

We changed the default value of the "standard" recovery paths to ~1y, so the safety net can be quickly set with the
maximum timelock without conflicting with an other recovery path.

Due to `rust-miniscript` compiler changes, for the same keys setup the output descriptor may differ from one generated
by a v9 Liana. Both descriptors are supported by Liana v9 and v10 versions.

By right-clicking with the mouse on text input, a button "Paste" appears and allows user to paste from the clipboard.

A new backup system for wallet configurations, including descriptors, has been introduced.
Users can now back up their wallet configurations by downloading a file during the wallet creation process.
They can also update their backup (for changes in labels, aliases, etc.) by downloading it from the Wallet settings.
This backup file can be used to restore the wallet or keep it synchronized across different devices.

This backup does not include hot keys (computer generated mnemonics).

A new "Export/Import" section will be available in the settings, consolidating all export and import options.
This section will include the backup and restore wallet functions, as well as new features like "Export Labels"
and "Export Descriptor."

The export of labels adheres to the BIP329 standard, both in the wallet backup and the "Export Labels" function.

Replace by fee action can now be executed on transactions without any related PSBT in the database.

### Fixes

#### Lianad

Sometimes fee rate using rounded-up vbytes was lower than target value, this was fixed by updating the coin selection
dependency `bdk_coin_select`.

#### Liana GUI

- We fixed some typos and wording.
- In the installer, the gui allows now deletion of any primary key and prevents deletion of all recovery paths
- Fixed a bug that could lead to address reuse (both deposit and change) in the case of a wallet with multiple instances
  (such as a multisig with multiple participants). This situation could arise if a user received a coin at an address
  revealed by another instance and this address had a higher derivation index than any address already revealed by this user.
  Such an address would still have been shown to the user as a new deposit address or would have been used as a change address
  when creating a new spend, depending on the type of address in question. This did not affect Liana-Connect users.

## 9.0

This Liana release introduces small bug fixes and a nice new export feature.
The whole code architecture was reworked to follow rust guidelines about workspace
and the reproducible build now makes usage of `nix` instead of `docker`.
The `liana-gui` linux binary is now built against an older `GLIBC 2.31` and
the release asset for apple devices is now an universal2 target that can be run by both
old x86_64 and new ARM apple devices.

The new Blockstream Jade Plus device id was added and this hardware wallet should be supported.

### Breaking changes

Running Liana v9 on an existing installation will migrate its database.
Once migrated the database won't be compatible with previous versions of Liana.
This means you won't be able to open with Liana v8 (or below) any wallet opened or created with Liana v9.

The new Minimum Supported Rust Version of the GUI software is now 1.80. This change was necessary to have
up to date system dependencies like `rfd`.

### Features

#### Liana daemon / library

- The daemon feature was removed, we expect user to use their own process manager like systemd.
- Three new columns are added to the table transaction: the number of inputs, the number of outputs and if the
  transaction is a coinbase transaction.
- A new column is added to the coins table: `is_from_self` and a new field `is_from_self`
  is added to the coin entry of the `list_coins` command. This field is true
  if the coin is from a transaction that every inputs or ancestors inputs belongs to the wallet.

#### Liana GUI

- New button on the transactions panel allows user to do an export of their transactions to an external file using the CSV format.
- Bitcoind and electrum information in the settings panel can now be copied to clipboard.
- The sync progress is now displayed with a percentage with 2 decimals
- On the send panel, the trailing zeros of the calculated max amount are not anymore trimmed.
- Coins that are change from transactions that user control (either confirmed or every inputs belongs to the wallet),
  are now part of the balance.
- Unconfirmed coins can now be selected by the automatic selection if the coins is from transaction which inputs are controlled by the wallet.

### Fixes

#### Liana daemon / library

- A spurious overestimation in fees was resolved.

#### Liana GUI

- The home panel was changed to load in an asynchronous and lighter way the payments list.
- When opening the receive panel, no new address is generated without the explicit demand of the user.
- A rescan request was failing with recent version of bitcoind because of the failure to match hardened derivation indexes.
- While updating a PSBT, taproot signatures were not correctly merged.

## 8.0

This release introduces support for Taproot descriptors on Bitbox02 devices and
a new install process including set-up templates and examples.
The way the wallet displays its syncing state was reworked.

### Breaking changes

Running Liana v8 on an existing installation will migrate its database.
Once migrated the database won't be compatible with previous versions of Liana.
This means you won't be able to open with Liana v7 (or below) any wallet opened or created with Liana v8.

The new Minimum Supported Rust Version of the GUI software is now 1.71.1. This change was necessary to include
the new Bitbox02 rust client version.

### Features

#### Liana daemon / library

A new field `last_poll_timestamp` was added to the wallet table in order to track the last time the wallet
was updated by the poller.

#### Liana GUI

- The new Bitcoind 28.0 version is now downloaded by the GUI.
- Bitbox02 devices can now be part of a Taproot descriptor set-up if their firmware version is greater than or equal to 9.21.0.
- The install process now includes examples of setups with fixed templates and explanatory descriptions to guide the user.
- UI/UX of the GUI buttons was reworked to have a clear distinction between a primary and a secondary button.
- The way the wallet displays its syncing state was reworked to follow these expected outcomes:

| ****Backend type****                | ****Wallet type****                                 | ****Expected outcome****                                                                                                             |
| ----------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
|   Liana Connect                     |   Creating a new wallet / Adding an existing wallet |   Show “Syncing…” with balance blinking until the first poll (we check the wallet height becomes positive)                           |
|   Liana Connect                     |   Loading a wallet already present in datadir       |   No syncing behavior expected                                                                                                       |
|   Local bitcoind (managed or not)   |   Creating a new wallet / Adding an existing wallet |   IBD progress bar (if needed). No syncing behavior expected.                                                                        |
|   Local bitcoind (managed or not)   |   Loading a wallet already present in datadir       |   No blockchain syncing progress bar, jump directly to the wallet.  Show "Syncing blockchain (X%) until blockchain synced. After that, show "Checking for new transactions..." until the first poll.   |
|   Electrum                          |   Creating a new wallet / Adding an existing wallet |   Show “Syncing…” with balance blinking until the first poll                                                                         |
|   Electrum                          |   Loading a wallet already present in datadir       |   Show "Syncing blockchain (X%) until blockchain synced. After that, show "Checking for new transactions..." until the first poll.   |
|   External daemon                   |   Creating a new wallet / Adding an existing wallet |   IBD progress bar (if needed). No syncing behavior expected                                                                         |
|   External daemon                   |   Loading a wallet already present in datadir       |   If last poll timestamp was already set once, will show "Checking for new transactions..."                                          |


### Fixes

#### Liana daemon / library

#### Liana GUI

- Hardware wallets with the app not open had a confusing warning message about outdated version.
- Button for the pagination of past transactions was sometimes missing because of a wrong calculation of the page size.
- Resend authentication token request did not work for already created account.

## 7.0

This release introduces support for Liana Connect as an optional backend for the Liana GUI
and Electrum server as an optional node interface for the Liana daemon.

### Breaking changes

Running Liana v7 on an existing installation will migrate its database.
Once migrated the database won't be compatible with previous versions of Liana.
This means you won't be able to open with Liana v6 (or below) any wallet opened or created with Liana v7.

### Features

#### Liana daemon / library

- Transactions are now created with fee sniping protection.
- You can now remotely connect to your node using Electrum, as an alternative to running Bitcoin Core locally.


#### Liana GUI

- The user does not have to select a network at start up anymore, the launcher looks for an installed
  network in the following order: `mainnet`, `testnet`, `signet`, `regtest`.
- The launcher reads the `settings.json` file and provides information about the installed wallet or
  provides the user with a choice to create or add a wallet.
- When creating or adding a wallet for the selected network, user has the choice to use his local
  node or an Electrum server or the Liana Connect service as a backend for the Liana GUI.
- User can share his hardware wallets xpubs by clicking on "Share xpubs" from the launcher.
- Wallet policy description was added to the installer and in the wallet settings.
- If using the Wizardsardine servers as remote backend, a user can provide access to a wallet to
  an other user by sending him an invitation with the invitee email in the wallet settings.
- Coldcard and Specter DIY can now be used with taproot descriptors.
- We now display the software version in the title bar.
- A `--help` flag was added to display a help menu about the available flags.
- The Bitcoin Core node version to install for managed local nodes was upgraded to 27.1.

### Fixes

#### Liana daemon / library

- We now check the change multipath is not hardened when importing a descriptor (or creating a `LianaDescriptor` struct).
- We add the minimum feerate requested in the error message of the create spend command.

#### Liana GUI

- The rendering of amounts superior to thousands now includes space.
- We detect if the descriptor changed before displaying registration status in the installer.
- We fixed some display issues with overlapping text, notably in the transaction panel.
- On reload, new labels are correctly loaded in existing transaction list in the home panel.
- In order to handle flaky connection, the whole hardware wallet list is reset at each step
  of the install process.

## 6.0

This release introduces support for the Jade signing device, a number of usability improvements as
well as some bug fixes.

### Breaking changes

#### Liana GUI

- The `hardware_wallets` field in the configuration file is now disregarded. It was deprecated since
  version 0.2.

### Features

#### Liana daemon / library

- We now more accurately estimate the size of a signed spend transaction, preventing overpaying fees
  in some configurations.
- `lianad` now accepts two new arguments: `--version` and `--help`.

#### Liana GUI

- We now support the Jade signing device.
- We now use a more recent graphic renderer ([`wgpu`](https://github.com/gfx-rs/wgpu)), which offers
  better compatibility with newer systems.
- The network is now set first in the installer.
- It's now possible to get back from the descriptor creation step to the installer landing page.
- Advanced text shaping was enabled. Basically: you can now use emojis in labels and aliases.
- Date and time are now displayed according to the system's timezone configuration.
- We now also show the [BIP388](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0388.mediawiki)
  wallet policy when registering a descriptor on a signing device.
- The descriptor backup step was removed in installer when a descriptor was just imported in the
  previous step.
- We now set a minimum window size.

### Fixes

#### Liana daemon / library

#### Liana GUI

- When creating a new wallet, we now better communicate if a wallet already exists in the selected
  network.
- When configuring the connection to bitcoind manually, we now display a warning if specifying a
  non-loopback IP address.
- Clicking on "Wallet" breadcrumb in Settings used to open "About" page.
- When entering the feerate for an RBF, it was made easier to edit a single-digit value.
- When updating an existing transaction draft, entering an invalid PSBT could crash the application.

## 5.0

This release introduces support for the Coldcard signing device, experimental Taproot support and a
number of user experience improvements.

### Features

#### Liana daemon / library

- Experimental support for Taproot was added.
- It's now possible to configure the connection to `bitcoind` using a user and a password in place
  of the cookie file. See the discussion at https://github.com/wizardsardine/liana/issues/356.
- The `getinfo` result now contains the "descriptor's timestamp": that is the oldest date at which
  we scanned the blockchain for coins.
- The `createspend` command now doesn't error anymore on insufficient funds, it instead returns the
  missing amount in its result.
- The `listspendtxs` command now accepts a new optional parameter to filter the result by txids.

#### Liana GUI

- Support for Coldcard was added. At the time of writing Miniscript support on the Coldcard is only
  available on the Edge firmware.
- You can now choose to create a Taproot descriptor in the installer. See
  [doc/signing_devices.md](doc/signing_devices.md) for details about the compatibility with hardware
  wallets.
- When creating a Spend transaction using automated coin selection (the default), setting the amount
  for any recipient to "Max" to sweep all the funds from the wallet to this recipient, minus the
  amount set for any other recipients.
- When creating a Spend transaction using manual coin selection, setting the amount of any of the
  recipient to "Max" will sweep all the *selected* coins (not all funds in the wallet) to this
  recipient, minus the amount set for other recipients.
- The automated coin selection when creating a spend transaction now also considers unconfirmed
  coins.
- When creating a Spend transaction, you can now change screen and come back to your draft. The
  state does not get cleared as soon as you leave the "Spend" menu anymore.
- We now display warnings to the user when creating a Spend transaction. For instance when the
  change output's value was too small that we added it to fees.
- RBF transaction now get automatically labeled.
- Signing a transaction on a hardware device does not hide the transaction details anymore.
- When broadcasting a transaction, the payments are now immediately available on the home page.
- The QR code for deposit address is now shown in a pop-up, which makes it available for all new
  addresses a user may generate on the Deposit screen.
- The address QR codes now also contain the derivation index in the URI.
- We now display a warning if a user tries to RBF a transaction whose change output is being spent
  by a later transaction. A warning is also displayed when broadcasting a spend if any of the inputs
  are currently being spent by another transaction.
- We now directly open the installer when starting Liana on a new datadir.
- The "Backup Descriptor" step was dropped from the installer flow when recovering from a
  descriptor.
- A new command line argument was added: `--version`.
- It's now possible to use `<Tab>` to move between text inputs across the GUI.

### Fixes

#### Liana daemon / library

- We now disallow rescanning from timestamps before the genesis block on test networks too.
- A potential crash was fixed when an immature coinbase transaction contains an output which pays to
  our *change* address.
- An off-by-one in address usage detection was fixed.

#### Liana GUI

- We now use a user/password to connect to `bitcoind` in the installer, removing the potential for
  flakiness due to having to detect the `.cookie` file.
- A crash was fixed in the installer when the user would change the network in step 1 after having
  started the managed bitcoind in step 4.
- Errors when triggering a rescan are now correctly displayed.
- In the installer, the details to connect to bitcoind in step 4 are now correctly updated when
  changing the network in step 1.
- In the list of PSBTs, the labels are now correctly aligned.

## 4.0

This release introduces support for bumping the fees of a transaction, verifying a deposit address
on your signing device, and more.

### Features

- The `outpoints` parameter of the `createspend` command is now optional. If not provided, we'll
  select coins automatically.
- A new `listaddresses` command was introduced.
- A new `rbfpsbt` command was introduced.
- The `createspend` command has a new, optional, `change_address` parameter. This makes it possible
  to create a transaction which sweeps all funds from the wallet.

#### GUI-specific

- When creating a Spend transaction, coins to be spent are now pre-selected. The selection is
  updated as you update the recipients and/or the feerate. The selection will stop being modified if
  you change it manually.
- It is now possible to verify deposit addresses on your signing device.
- You can now bump the fees of an unconfirmed transaction. A "bump fee" button was introduced in the
  transaction details (available from the list of transactions).
- You can now "cancel" an unconfirmed transaction. A "cancel" button was introduced in the
  transaction details (available from the list of transactions). NOTE: the cancel feature is not
  guaranteed to work. It's simply leveraging RBF to double spend the outgoing transaction with a
  transaction paying back to ourselves.
- You can now delete a wallet for a specific network from the launcher.
- When selecting a signing device, those which are not related to the wallet or which don't support
  a specific method (such as displaying an address) are now greyed-out.
- The managed Bitcoin Core version was bumped to 26.0.

### Fixes

- In case a transaction spending one of our coins was RBF'd, we could incorrectly assign an
  incorrect spending transaction to this coin.

#### GUI-specific

- Setting a feerate larger than `2^64` when creating a Spend would previously crash the software.
- When displaying a PSBT the software could crash if some of the inputs of the transaction
  disappeared (were double-spent).

## 3.0

This release introduces support for the BitBox02 signing device, as well as the possibility to label
payments, batches of payments, coins and addresses.

### Breaking changes

- Descriptors with duplicate signers **within a single spending path** are not supported anymore.
  Note re-using a signer across spending paths (for instance for a decaying multisig) is still
  supported, this only concerns pathological descriptor where the same signer would be repeated in
  the same path.

### Features

- Two new optional parameters were introduced to the `listcoins` command to be able to filter coins
  by status (confirmed, spent, etc..) and outpoints (to query specific coins).
- We updated the ["quick try"](https://github.com/wizardsardine/liana/blob/master/doc/TRY.md) guide
  to make use of the managed `bitcoind`. Trying out Liana on Signet is now easier than ever!

#### GUI-specific

- You can now use the [BitBox02](https://bitbox.swiss/bitbox02/) signing device. The minimum
  supported version of the firmware is v9.15.0, so make sure to upgrade!
- It's now possible to label coins and payments (that is, a transactions output). It's also possible
  to label batches of payments (that is, a transaction itself) and addresses.
- The number of steps in the installer was reduced by dropping the final confirmation screen. The
  wallet will now start automatically after configuration, reducing the information load and number
  of clicks for the user.
- All text inputs are now sanitized to remove whitespaces. No need to manually remove a trailing
  whitespace when importing a PSBT for instance!
- Various loading screens at startup were updated to include more information.
- The transaction fee rate is now displayed in addition to the absolute fee in the details.
- The managed bitcoind version was bumped to 25.1 for new installations.

### Fixes

- We fixed the minimum glibc version in the dependencies of the Debian package.
- We could previously crash if we were started up against a bitcoind itself recovering from a previous
  crash and in the process of re-connecting the entire chain.
- A few incorrect commands were corrected in the wallet recovery documentation.

#### GUI-specific

- Selecting a coinbase transaction won't make the GUI crash anymore.
- At startup there could previously be a small lag before the home page gets updated with the list
  of payments and correct balance.
- During installation, when using a managed bitcoind, the GUI could previously freeze after starting
  up bitcoind.

## 2.0

This release significantly simplifies the installation of Liana. It also fixes a number of small
bugs and glitches.

### Breaking changes

- Descriptors created with Liana v2 may not be backward compatible with Liana v1.

### Features

- We made it possible to re-use an xpub within a descriptor, so long as it uses a different
  derivation path.
- We added new RPC commands allowing for updating and querying labels of txids, addresses and
  outpoints.
- We've made our RPC connection to `bitcoind` more robust.
- We now distribute packages for Debian-based and Arch-based Linux distributions.
- A guide on how to recover a Liana wallet backup with Bitcoin Core was added.
- An example config file for running `lianad` was added.
- We've worked around the use of prefixed-paths on Windows thereby allowing us to bring back the
  watchonly wallet at the same location as for other operating systems, under our own datadir.

#### GUI-specific

- The UX for creating a descriptor where a signer is present in different spending paths was
  significantly improved.
- The installation process, as well as the usage of the wallet, was made more user friendly by
  optionally encapsulating the management (download, start and stop) of the `bitcoind`.

### Fixes

- We more gracefully stop the Bitcoin backend poller when the block chain is still in the process of
  being synchronized. This would previously appear to hang and could freeze the GUI.
- The handling of conflicting unconfirmed spend transactions (RBFs) was fixed.
- If paid directly through a coinbase transaction output, the wallet could have previously missed
  it. This was fixed.
- We now correctly treat immature coinbase deposits as unspendable. They are otherwise treated
  similarly to unconfirmed coins.
- We now tell `bitcoind` to load our watchonly wallet upon startup. Not loading the watchonly wallet
  on startup could make `bitcoind` unable to load it without reindexing the block chain, if using an
  aggressive pruning configuration.
- `lianad` will now print a more helpful message on startup failure (and link to the newly added
  config file example).

#### GUI-specific

- We now check the network of xpubs when importing a descriptor.
- The GUI would sometimes fail to connect to the Specter DIY signing device.
- We now convey the descriptor registration step on a signing device isn't necessary if none were
  used.
- We could previously appear to hang during shutdown.


## 1.0

This is the first non-beta release of Liana.

Improvements were concentrated on the GUI. The UI was entirely overhauled.

### Features

- The `createspend` command now allows you to not provide any destination. In this case it will
  create a send-to-self transaction containing a single change output.

#### GUI-specific

- Overall there is a new layout and color scheme. The "draft transactions" menu was renamed to
  the more common "PSBTs".
- The homepage now features a list of payments, instead of transactions.
- The spend transaction creation process is now contained in a single screen. It allows you to
  easily create a send-to-self transaction by not specifying any recipient.
- The homepage will now feature an approximation of the remaining time before the first recovery
  path becomes available.
- The homepage now features a button to refresh all coins whose recovery path is available (or close
  to be), if there is any.
- Entries in the coins list now features a button to refresh a coin (create a send-to-self
  transaction in order to restart the timelock).
- You can now generate multiple receive addresses in a row.
- We now display the alias of signing devices (if any) in the final installer step.

### Fixes

#### GUI-specific

- Send-to-self transactions are now displayed as such instead of being affected a "0.00000BTC"
  value.
- The installer will not present a step to register the descriptor on the signing device if there
  isn't any.
- Some wording improvements all around.
- The slider to configure timelocks in the installer now has a step of 144 (instead of 1).

## 0.4

This fourth release brings support for descriptors with multiple recovery path as well as several
usability improvements in the GUI around signing devices management, and more.

### Features

- We now support having multiple recovery path in a descriptor.
- We now support more general descriptors: multisigs in the primary or any of the recovery paths
  henceforth aren't required to use `multi()` anymore and the maximum number of keys per spending
  path is thereby lifted.

#### GUI-specific

- You can now re-register the descriptor on a hardware signing device in the settings.
- You can now change the alias of each of the signers from the settings panel.
- At signing time we now warn you if the descriptor is not registered on the signing device.
- The signer alias is now displayed along with its type when signing.
- You can now connect to a running daemon without having to provide a path to its configuration,
  provided it is using the default location for its data directory (or `--datadir` is used).
- The GUI will now log to a `installer.log` file at the root of the datadir during installation, and
  to a `<network>/liana-gui.log` when running. In case of crash, this will contain a backtrace.
- During installation we now check the connection to bitcoind.

### Fixes

- We won't error when parsing of descriptor with a 1-of-N multisig as primary path.
- We won't error at startup if our watchonly wallet is loading on bitcoind. Instead, we'll wait for
  completion of the previous loading attempt.

#### GUI-specific

- Blank addresses aren't treated as duplicates when creating a transaction.

## 0.3.1

A patch release for a serious bug fix in the GUI installer.

### Fixes

#### GUI-specific

- Under very specific conditions the GUI installer would not store the mnemonic words corresponding
  to a hot key that was used in the descriptor, nor present it to the user for backup.

## 0.3

A small release which brings some fixes as well as the possibility to use Liana as a "hot wallet".

### Features

- Hot keys: users can now generate and sign with keys that are stored on the device. It is
  recommended to be only used for testing for now.

#### GUI-specific

- It is now possible to use multiple signing device of the same type without having to first connect
  one then the other.

### Fixes

- When used as a daemon the `lianad` process had its PID and logs file mixed up. This is now fixed.
- We fixed the transaction creation sanity check that was overestimating the transaction fee.

#### GUI-specific

- In the installer flow, extended keys are now shared without the `/<0;1>/*` suffix.

## 0.2

The second release of Liana brings various fixes as well as the possibility to use a multisig in
either, or both, of the spending paths.

### Features

- Multisig: we now support descriptors with multiple keys both in the primary (non-timelocked)
  spending path and the recovery (timelocked) path.

#### GUI-specific

- You can now import and update Spend transaction drafts as PSBTs to collaboratively create and sign
  transactions.
- When creating a new descriptor you can now set an alias for each key. Those will be displayed when
  inspecting a transaction's signatories.
- Amounts are now displayed with the sats in bold for better redability.

### Fixes

- We now remove the fixed interpreter and rpath set by GUIX reproducible builds in the `liana-cli`
  ELF binary.
- We now check the `bitcoind` version before trying to import a Miniscript descriptor.
- We now discard unconfirmed incoming payments that were dropped from our mempool.
- **Breaking change**: the first version of Liana mistakenly accepted extended keys without origin
  in descriptors. This meant that unless this extended key was the master extended key of a chain,
  it would not be possible to sign with it (since signing devices need to know the origin). Starting
  from version 2 Liana forces extended keys to contain an origin (of the form `[a1b2c3d4]`) to avoid
  this footgun. This means that existing descriptors might have to be migrated, but it's very likely
  only for test configurations where an xpub wasn't gathered from a signing device (which prepends
  an origin) but generated (probably imported from Coleman's website) and pasted without origin.

#### GUI-specific

- Various wording fixes on the UI.
- Amounts are now updated when moving between steps in the Spend creation flow.
- Coins are now sorted by age when displayed as a list.
- Some flakiness in the connection to a signing device were fixed.
- The descriptor registration on a signing device step in the installer was made clearer.
